openvpn configuration

configuring and setting up a vpn can be confusing and hard, but
ultimately worth while. this is a set of scripts to ease such setup
namely for openvpn.

access to the vpn will be managed using a pki setup with
easy-rsa. most package managers have it somewhere.

a subnet needs to be chosen for both ipv4 and ipv6
addressing. 10.13.0.0/16 and fd13::/16 should be enough, although the
ipv6 /16 might be too big for openvpn so we can just shrink it to a
/64.

the option --client-connect can be used to setup association between
the client's cn and a preconfigured ip address. alternatively we can
use the management interface, but that seems excessively
complicated. hopefully the client-connect script can be specified
inline with the configuration file.

dns entries need to be setup for each cn and address. need to consider
if these will be public records or private ones and if they are public
then a domain will need to be setup for them. if they are private than
we may have a problem since not all clients will accept the dns
servers we push to them, my own systems use bind9 as a resolver
locally and `truncate -s 0 /etc/resolv.conf; chattr +i
/etc/resolv.conf` because dnssec isn't always used on the pushed dns
servers and they can mess with what's intentionally setup.

a person may not want to always expose their personal dns setting
publicly, so in that case we can use a split dns configuration.

domain zone files can be generated. they can also generate ip
addresses, although that will only be useful if our pushed dns servers
are accepted. 

postfix configuration can also be generated. this will use the vpn
server as an email gateway.

the vpn server will become a traditional gateway.

dns can be managed through nsupdate.

there's no need for dhcp or anything like that. openvpn can just push
all routes on its own.

client-to-client routing will need to turned on in openvpn for an
intranet. alternatively we can use tap devices but those are supposed
to be much slower than tun devices. there isn't much need for tap
devices anyway since the only thing tun devices can't do is broadcast
addressing but multicast should be fine.

